
# README v1

Q:	What is WifiBSD?
A:	WifiBSD is FreeBSD (Make no mistake about this).
	WifiBSD is not a fork of FreeBSD.
	WifiBSD is similar to PicoBSD.
	WifiBSD is simply a smaller release of FreeBSD with a focus on being a wireless appliance.


WifiBSD was originally based on MiniBSD (also FreeBSD) by Manuel Kasper <mk@neon1.net>, but WifiBSD has
since evolved beyond the confines of MiniBSD into a distinct project. Rather than being a manual
process of reducing FreeBSD by following instruction, we automate the process with shell scripts. The
process of scripting the MiniBSD process has rendered a system much more akin to PicoBSD by Dr. Luigi
Rizzo <luigi@iet.unipi.it>, et'all. WifiBSD is designed to work with current versions of FreeBSD and
does not work with anything prior to FreeBSD 5.1-RELEASE.


Reductive Vs Additive

WifiBSD depends on your presently installed FreeBSD system to build the image. It is a reductive
process of miniaturization as opposed to an additive process. What that means is a reductive process
starts as a full FreeBSD system, and reduces it to only the minimum parts required to function.
An additive system is more akin to PicoBSD where you must build all the parts of your system from
the ground up.


Dynamic Vs Static.

In addition to removing unnecessary files, it is also ideal to remove unnecessary bulk from the
remaining executable by dynamically linking all code that can be shared amongst them. FreeBSD has two
make.conf(5) methods to achieve this. The WITH_DYNAMICROOT=YES variable is a safe way
to build your system with dynamic executables, but it only applies to /bin and /sbin, which leaves some
files statically compiled under /usr. The NOSHARED=NO variable causes everything in the FreeBSD sources
to be dynamically built, but this can cause some problems if you do not use the previous variable in
conjunction, or your /usr/lib is on a different filesystem from your /sbin/init file. It is recommended
that you enable both options in your /etc/make.conf. You should note that WITH_DYNAMICROOT option is
only available in -CURRENT versions of FreeBSD 5.1.


The build environment.

You can use any FreeBSD 5.1 (or later) system to build the WifiBSD image, but a laptop computer is
ideal because those contain the pccard slots, which allow you to install WifiBSD a Compact Flash device
much more easily than attaching an external CF reader to a desktop computer. However, it is possible to
build the WifiBSD image on your fast desktop system, and then install the image via your slower laptop
computer (which is what the WifiBSD developers do).


Advantages of jail(8)

You might consider taking advantage of FreeBSD's jail(8) facility to create an environment that you
have no problem corrupting. The reason for this is because WifiBSD is best when using all dynamically
linked executables, and you probably do not want that on your important computer.
